Project section (#1)
cheryllium/easy-html-css: _lessons/19-fancy-link-effects.md

---
title: Fancy Link Effects
lesson: 19
layout: default
---

This project is coming along nicely; we have finished our layout and chosen some colors to give it some personality. The next thing we'll do is customize the sidebar links. 

### Linking with Style

Let's customize our links by: 

- Removing the underline
- Adding font and background colors
- Spacing them out and padding the contents
- Add a decorative partial border

#### Remove the Default Underline

> Links are underlined by default, but this can be removed with CSS. Normally, underline is controlled by the `text-decoration` property, which sets decorative lines on text. You can actually control a lot with this property, but we will focus on two possible values: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Links are underlined by default, but this can be removed with CSS. Normally, underline is controlled by the `text-decoration` property, which sets decorative lines on text. You can actually control a lot with this property, but we will focus on these three possible values: 
```

> - `text-decoration: underline;` specifies that the text should be underlined.

Reviewer: We never end up mentioning `text-decoration: underline;` ever again lol.

Author: I wanted to include how to underline with it, because that is the context that it's being introduced in (that links are underlined and this property controls underline)

It would be weird to say "this property controls underline" and not include how to underline with it, I think?

If we want to see this in action, I could completely remove the line-through part, and have the links be underlined on hover instead.

Reviewer: I think links being underlined on hover make a lot more sense than strikethrough.

Strikethrough is a lot more situational, I think. Maybe if you want to include it, you can mention it in an aside or something.

To style a hovered link, we simple write `a:hover` instead of `a` in our CSS. The `:hover` here is called a "pseudo-class" and it's a magical way of saying "select an `a` tag only when it is hovered". 

To test this out, let's add a rule that underlines the link when it is hovered over, using the `text-decoration` property. 

```
#sidebar a:hover {
  text-decoration: underline;
}
```

The selector `#sidebar a:hover` means: "select every `a` tag that is being hovered over, and is in the `#sidebar` element".

Now, refresh the page and try hovering over the link. Now, it will be underlined when we hover. However, notice that all of the CSS we wrote for `#sidebar a` still applies: the display block, colors, borders and spacing. That's because the link is still an `a` tag in the `#sidebar`, even when it is hovered over. The browser will apply the styles for `#sidebar a` first, and then add the styles for `#sidebar a:hover` over top of that. 

> For properties defined by both, it will go with the `a:hover` rules because that selector is more specific. For example, we already `text-decoration: none;` on the selector that only contains the `a` tag. Our `a:hover` rule changes this for hovered links, so they appear underlined, but everything else stays the same. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For properties defined by both, it will go with the `a:hover` rules because that selector is more specific. For example, we already added `text-decoration: none;` on the selector that only contains the `a` tag. Our `a:hover` rule changes this for hovered links, so they appear underlined, but everything else stays the same. 
```
